---
title: 1Q84
type: docs
weight: 10
---

# **1Q84**

<h4>Author <span class='book_header'>Haruki Murakami</span></br>Date <span class='book_header'>April 19, 2024</span></br>Rating <span class='book_header'>4/5</span></h4>

The last book by Murakami that I had read I had found rather curious. I had read that book at a consequential point in my life, and this book once again finds its way into my sight at another consequential moment. Perhaps it is for these reasons I do not see the book in the same light as many others.  

This book has meant a lot to me as I had read it. And that is mostly due in part to the fact that it was the one escape I had from life. I kept going back and back to it to avoid staring at the wall in vain. It was helpful. The story was very engrossing, as can be presumed. The fact that it was so engrossing helped me feel better, to be true.

The story is really quite good, and I really do like magical realism, so that would influence my perception of it. I think the fact that it was magical realism helped me with the real world too. Maybe, or maybe not, I'm not totally sure for sure. Regardless, the story was immaculate, and I kept wanting to come back for more.

Still though, even with my state of affairs and my continued great interest in the story, many things did bother me greatly about the book. Most prominently in that the author does not appear to know how to write women. This is already well known about Murakami so I am presumably just jumping on something already miles high. Even still, the derangement with which some of the lines and statements were made was just so absurd as to be totally offputting and take me out of the book greatly.

Regardless, it's still quite good, and it helped me a lot when I really needed it, and I can thank Murakami for that much at least.

